Hi,

When sending files to overseas volunteers is a very good idea to split files up as attachments in several emails, as connection speed requires many attempts to download mail. It is common to take 5 to 10 tries to see a g-mail account. Some days no success is achieved. My on-line routine is to open many tabs at once, (anti-virus, Juno, G-mail, Aljazeera news), then help others in the lab, returning to the desk occasionally to check progress. If lucky (also depends on how many students need help), I will have a chance to get through the list before lunch -- 5 hours later. Afternoons are generally impossible to get on-line. 

The anti-virus software I like best is Avast v.4.8. The Avast! anti-virus update file is huge and growing -- now at 35 MB. In the morning it can take 1 to 3 hours to download. (The longer it takes, the more prone to errors -- meaning the file is no good and the download must be started again.)  Attempting an afternoon download is futile -- would take 12 - 14 hours -- long after the computers are shut down for the day. But virus infections are a way of life in Tanzania, so keeping the lab protected is a major concern. 

I recently traveled to Bihawana village in the Dodoma Region (almost due West from me). They have an all-male boarding school that was originally started by a mission, but is now government run. (Another
volunteer is at an all-female boarding school, with similar curriculum, in the same region.)  Took existing, non-working desktop computers, worked them until I had three additional systems to join
the two in existence. Major problems were:
1. Bent pins on several connectors (HDD, monitor, and mouse),
2. Improper jumper settings on installed hard drives,
3. Some drives had been wiped clean, so staff assumed damaged,
4. Attempting to use SCSI drives on ATA equipment,
5. Heavy Virus infection.

Then I taught four or five 2-hour classes introducing computers, ending with students opening and closing programs, and saving and opening NotePad. My students had all just finished the Form VI exam
(ending their secondary education), and are highly motivated. This was an optional class in their free time.  None of them had touched a computer before! As is typical in Tanzania, two or three students sitting at each computer. The expression on student faces when they "get it" is priceless.

It's now 18 months since I left Los Angeles for Philly & Tanzania. Time flies when your having fun!  This is also when future plans are made, as my service ends at the end of November +/- one month.  If I decide NOT to extend, I might link up with someone wanting to tour in Egypt, but several folks have had everything stolen. I will have to weigh the risks. 

Medical concerns:  
1.  My clavicle seems to have healed nicely, with no known mobility limit. Next week I get to try my very heavy pack on again! 
2.  I've had a growth between my left side burn and ear for 10 months or so that won't heal. [This turned out to be Basal cell carcinoma]

